# Is it just a Mirage: Identify Legit Breakout Candidates and Imposters in the Age of Tanking in the NBA
## Author: Mike Zhang ##

## Project Overview
Since time immemorial, tanking has been an issue in the NBA. Over the past few years, with loads of generational talents like Victor Wembanyama and Cooper Flagg entering the league every year, the tanking measurements adopted by teams have become, well, more and more blatant, whether they are teams that were in the middle of a dog fight in the finals yet somehow predicted their best player was about to tear his achilles a few days later like the Pacers, accumulate assets for the future like the Nets, cross fingers for a miracle after trading away their franchise like the Mavs, or simply be the Sacramento Kings who started Kilian Hayes for the last game.

It's bad for the game, I get it. But at the same time, it allows teams to experiment with their lineups and develop players who otherwise might not get enough playing time to show what they can actually do on the court. Take the now all-star Deni Avdija as an example. After spending four underwhelming years in D.C., he was traded to the Blazers for cheap, and during his first season with the Blazers, he still merely looked like a high-caliber role player at best, averaging a serviceable 14/6/3 with mediocre efficiency, just slightly better than what he did with the Wizards. However, he suddenly emerged as a breakout candidate since the All-Star break, stuffing the statsheet with a stunning 23/9/5 line with an impressive 50%/40%/78% split. Avdija finished the 25-26 season strong, but rumors of him starting the 25-26 season off the bench were circulating in the off-season, showing just how fans and analysts are treating stats from the so-called Mickey-mouse March with caution nowadays.
